The Law, as quoted, lays down a fair conduct of life, and one not easy to

follow. I have been fellow to a beggar again and again under circumstances

which prevented either of us finding out whether the other was worthy. I

have still to be brother to a Prince, though I once came near to kinship

with what might have been a veritable King and was promised the reversion

of a Kingdom--army, law-courts, revenue and policy all complete. But,

to-day, I greatly fear that my King is dead, and if I want a crown I must

go and hunt it for myself.

The beginning of everything was in a railway train upon the road to Mhow

from Ajmir. There had been a Deficit in the Budget, which necessitated

traveling, not Second-class, which is only half as dear as First-class,

but by Intermediate, which is very awful indeed. There are no cushions in

the Intermediate class, and the population are either Intermediate, which

is Eurasian, or native, which for a long night journey is nasty, or

Loafer, which is amusing though intoxicated. Intermediates do not

patronize refreshment-rooms. They carry their food in bundles and pots,

and buy sweets from the native sweetmeat-sellers, and drink the roadside

water. That is why in the hot weather Intermediates are taken out of the

carriages dead, and in all weathers are most properly looked down upon.

My particular Intermediate happened to be empty till I reached Nasirabad,

when a huge gentleman in shirt-sleeves entered, and, following the custom

of Intermediates, passed the time of day. He was a wanderer and a vagabond

like myself, but with an educated taste for whiskey. He told tales of

things he had seen and done, of out-of-the-way corners of the Empire into

which he had penetrated, and of adventures in which he risked his life for

a few days' food. "If India was filled with men like you and me, not

knowing more than the crows where they'd get their next day's rations, it

isn't seventy millions of revenue the land would be paying--it's seven

hundred millions," said he: and as I looked at his mouth and chin I was

disposed to agree with him. We talked politics--the politics of Loaferdom

that sees things from the underside where the lath and plaster is not

smoothed off--and we talked postal arrangements because my friend wanted

to send a telegram back from the next station to Ajmir, which is the

turning-off place from the Bombay to the Mhow line as you travel westward.

My friend had no money beyond eight annas which he wanted for dinner, and

I had no money at all, owing to the hitch in the Budget before mentioned.

Further, I was going into a wilderness where, though I should resume touch

with the Treasury, there were no telegraph offices. I was, therefore,

unable to help him in any way.

"We might threaten a Station-master, and make him send a wire on tick,"

said my friend, "but that'd mean inquiries for you and for me, and I've

got my hands full these days. Did you say you are traveling back along

this line within any days?"

"Within ten," I said.

"Can't you make it eight?" said he. "Mine is rather urgent business."

"I can send your telegram within ten days if that will serve you," I said.

"I couldn't trust the wire to fetch him now I think of it. It's this way.

He leaves Delhi on the 23d for Bombay. That means he'll be running through

Ajmir about the night of the 23d."

"But I'm going into the Indian Desert," I explained.

"Well \_and\_ good," said he. "You'll be changing at Marwar Junction to get

into Jodhpore territory--you must do that--and he'll be coming through

Marwar Junction in the early morning of the 24th by the Bombay Mail. Can

you be at Marwar Junction on that time? 'Twon't be inconveniencing you

because I know that there's precious few pickings to be got out of these

Central India States--even though you pretend to be correspondent of the

\_Backwoodsman\_."

"Have you ever tried that trick?" I asked.

"Again and again, but the Residents find you out, and then you get

escorted to the Border before you've time to get your knife into them. But

about my friend here. I \_must\_ give him a word o' mouth to tell him what's

come to me or else he won't know where to go. I would take it more than

kind of you if you was to come out of Central India in time to catch him

at Marwar junction, and say to him:--'He has gone South for the week.'

He'll know what that means. He's a big man with a red beard, and a great

swell he is. You'll find him sleeping like a gentleman with all his

luggage round him in a Second-class compartment. But don't you be afraid.

Slip down the window, and say:--'He has gone South for the week,' and

he'll tumble. It's only cutting your time of stay in those parts by two

days. I ask you as a stranger--going to the West," he said, with emphasis.

"Where have \_you\_ come from?" said I.

"From the East," said he, "and I am hoping that you will give him the

message on the Square--for the sake of my Mother as well as your own."

Englishmen are not usually softened by appeals to the memory of their

mothers, but for certain reasons, which will be fully apparent, I saw fit

to agree.

"It's more than a little matter," said he, "and that's why I ask you to do

it--and now I know that I can depend on you doing it. A Second-class

carriage at Marwar Junction, and a red-haired man asleep in it. You'll be

sure to remember. I get out at the next station, and I must hold on there

till he comes or sends me what I want."

"I'll give the message if I catch him," I said, "and for the sake of your

Mother as well as mine I'll give you a word of advice. Don't try to run

the Central India States just now as the correspondent of the

\_Backwoodsman\_. There's a real one knocking about here, and it might lead

to trouble."

"Thank you," said he, simply, "and when will the swine be gone? I can't

starve because he's ruining my work. I wanted to get hold of the Degumber

Rajah down here about his father's widow, and give him a jump."

"What did he do to his father's widow then?"

"Filled her up with red pepper and slippered her to death as she hung from

a beam. I found that out myself and I'm the only man that would dare going

into the State to get hush-money for it. They'll try to poison me, same as

they did in Chortumna when I went on the loot there. But you'll give the

man at Marwar Junction my message?"

He got out at a little roadside station, and I reflected. I had heard,

more than once, of men personating correspondents of newspapers and

bleeding small Native States with threats of exposure, but I had never met

any of the caste before. They lead a hard life, and generally die with

great suddenness. The Native States have a wholesome horror of English

newspapers, which may throw light on their peculiar methods of government,

and do their best to choke correspondents with champagne, or drive them

out of their mind with four-in-hand barouches. They do not understand that

nobody cares a straw for the internal administration of Native States so

long as oppression and crime are kept within decent limits, and the ruler

is not drugged, drunk, or diseased from one end of the year to the other.

Native States were created by Providence in order to supply picturesque

scenery, tigers, and tall-writing. They are the dark places of the earth,

full of unimaginable cruelty, touching the Railway and the Telegraph on

one side, and, on the other, the days of Harun-al-Raschid. When I left the

train I did business with divers Kings, and in eight days passed through

many changes of life. Sometimes I wore dress-clothes and consorted with

Princes and Politicals, drinking from crystal and eating from silver.

Sometimes I lay out upon the ground and devoured what I could get, from a

plate made of a flapjack, and drank the running water, and slept under the

same rug as my servant. It was all in the day's work.

Then I headed for the Great Indian Desert upon the proper date, as I had

promised, and the night Mail set me down at Marwar Junction, where a funny

little, happy-go-lucky, native-managed railway runs to Jodhpore. The

Bombay Mail from Delhi makes a short halt at Marwar. She arrived as I got

in, and I had just time to hurry to her platform and go down the

carriages. There was only one Second-class on the train. I slipped the

window and looked down upon a flaming red beard, half covered by a railway

rug. That was my man, fast asleep, and I dug him gently in the ribs. He

woke with a grunt and I saw his face in the light of the lamps. It was a

great and shining face.

"Tickets again?" said he.

"No," said I. "I am to tell you that he is gone South for the week. He is

gone South for the week!"

The train had begun to move out. The red man rubbed his eyes. "He has gone

South for the week," he repeated. "Now that's just like his impidence. Did

he say that I was to give you anything?--'Cause I won't."

"He didn't," I said, and dropped away, and watched the red lights die out

in the dark. It was horribly cold because the wind was blowing off the

sands. I climbed into my own train--not an Intermediate Carriage this

time--and went to sleep.

If the man with the beard had given me a rupee I should have kept it as a

memento of a rather curious affair. But the consciousness of having done

my duty was my only reward.

Later on I reflected that two gentlemen like my friends could not do any

good if they foregathered and personated correspondents of newspapers, and

might, if they "stuck up" one of the little rat-trap states of Central

India or Southern Rajputana, get themselves into serious difficulties. I

therefore took some trouble to describe them as accurately as I could

remember to people who would be interested in deporting them: and

succeeded, so I was later informed, in having them headed back from the

Degumber borders.

Then I became respectable, and returned to an Office where there were no

Kings and no incidents except the daily manufacture of a newspaper. A

newspaper office seems to attract every conceivable sort of person, to the

prejudice of discipline. Zenana-mission ladies arrive, and beg that the

Editor will instantly abandon all his duties to describe a Christian

prize-giving in a back-slum of a perfectly inaccessible village; Colonels

who have been overpassed for commands sit down and sketch the outline of a

series of ten, twelve, or twenty-four leading articles on Seniority

\_versus\_ Selection; missionaries wish to know why they have not been

permitted to escape from their regular vehicles of abuse and swear at a

brother-missionary under special patronage of the editorial We; stranded

theatrical companies troop up to explain that they cannot pay for their

advertisements, but on their return from New Zealand or Tahiti will do so

with interest; inventors of patent punkah-pulling machines, carriage

couplings and unbreakable swords and axle-trees call with specifications

in their pockets and hours at their disposal; tea-companies enter and

elaborate their prospectuses with the office pens; secretaries of

ball-committees clamor to have the glories of their last dance more fully

expounded; strange ladies rustle in and say:--"I want a hundred lady's

cards printed \_at once\_, please," which is manifestly part of an Editor's

duty; and every dissolute ruffian that ever tramped the Grand Trunk Road

makes it his business to ask for employment as a proofreader. And, all the

time, the telephone-bell is ringing madly, and Kings are being killed on

the Continent, and Empires are saying--"You're another," and Mister

Gladstone is calling down brimstone upon the British Dominions, and the

little black copy-boys are whining, "\_kaa-pi-chay-ha-yeh\_" (copy wanted)

like tired bees, and most of the paper is as blank as Modred's shield,

But that is the amusing part of the year. There are six other months

wherein none ever come to call, and the thermometer walks inch by inch up

to the top of the glass, and the office is darkened to just above

reading-light, and the press machines are red-hot of touch, and nobody

writes anything but accounts of amusements in the Hill-stations or

obituary notices. Then the telephone becomes a tinkling terror, because it

tells you of the sudden deaths of men and women that you knew intimately,

and the prickly-heat covers you as with a garment, and you sit down and

write:--"A slight increase of sickness is reported from the Khuda Janta

Khan District. The outbreak is purely sporadic in its nature, and, thanks

to the energetic efforts of the District authorities, is now almost at an

end. It is, however, with deep regret we record the death, etc."

Then the sickness really breaks out, and the less recording and reporting

the better for the peace of the subscribers. But the Empires and the Kings

continue to divert themselves as selfishly as before, and the Foreman

thinks that a daily paper really ought to come out once in twenty-four

hours, and all the people at the Hill-stations in the middle of their

amusements say:--"Good gracious! Why can't the paper be sparkling? I'm

sure there's plenty going on up here."

That is the dark half of the moon, and, as the advertisements say, "must

be experienced to be appreciated."

It was in that season, and a remarkably evil season, that the paper began

running the last issue of the week on Saturday night, which is to say

Sunday morning, after the custom of a London paper. This was a great

convenience, for immediately after the paper was put to bed, the dawn

would lower the thermometer from 96 to almost 84 for half an hour, and

in that chill--you have no idea how cold is 84 on the grass until you

begin to pray for it--a very tired man could set off to sleep ere the heat

roused him.

One Saturday night it was my pleasant duty to put the paper to bed alone.

A King or courtier or a courtesan or a community was going to die or get a

new Constitution, or do something that was important on the other side of

the world, and the paper was to be held open till the latest possible

minute in order to catch the telegram. It was a pitchy black night, as

stifling as a June night can be, and the \_loo\_, the red-hot wind from the

westward, was booming among the tinder-dry trees and pretending that the

rain was on its heels. Now and again a spot of almost boiling water would

fall on the dust with the flop of a frog, but all our weary world knew

that was only pretence. It was a shade cooler in the press-room than the

office, so I sat there, while the type ticked and clicked, and the

night-jars hooted at the windows, and the all but naked compositors wiped

the sweat from their foreheads and called for water. The thing that was

keeping us back, whatever it was, would not come off, though the \_loo\_

dropped and the last type was set, and the whole round earth stood still

in the choking heat, with its finger on its lip, to wait the event. I

drowsed, and wondered whether the telegraph was a blessing, and whether

this dying man, or struggling people was aware of the inconvenience the

delay was causing. There was no special reason beyond the heat and worry

to make tension, but, as the clock hands crept up to three o'clock and the

machines spun their fly-wheels two and three times to see that all was in

order, before I said the word that would set them off, I could have

shrieked aloud.

Then the roar and rattle of the wheels shivered the quiet into little

bits. I rose to go away, but two men in white clothes stood in front of

me. The first one said:--"It's him!" The second said:--"So it is!" And

they both laughed almost as loudly as the machinery roared, and mopped

their foreheads. "We see there was a light burning across the road and we

were sleeping in that ditch there for coolness, and I said to my friend

here, The office is open. Let's come along and speak to him as turned us

back from the Degumber State," said the smaller of the two. He was the man

I had met in the Mhow train, and his fellow was the red-bearded man of

Marwar Junction. There was no mistaking the eyebrows of the one or the

beard of the other.

I was not pleased, because I wished to go to sleep, not to squabble with

loafers. "What do you want?" I asked.

"Half an hour's talk with you cool and comfortable, in the office," said

the red-bearded man. "We'd \_like\_ some drink--the Contrack doesn't begin

yet, Peachey, so you needn't look--but what we really want is advice. We

don't want money. We ask you as a favor, because you did us a bad turn

about Degumber."

I led from the press-room to the stifling office with the maps on the

walls, and the red-haired man rubbed his hands. "That's something like,"

said he, "This was the proper shop to come to. Now, Sir, let me introduce

to you Brother Peachey Carnehan, that's him, and Brother Daniel Dravot,

that is \_me\_, and the less said about our professions the better, for we

have been most things in our time. Soldier, sailor, compositor,

photographer, proof-reader, street-preacher, and correspondents of the

\_Backwoodsman\_ when we thought the paper wanted one. Carnehan is sober,

and so am I. Look at us first and see that's sure. It will save you

cutting into my talk. We'll take one of your cigars apiece, and you shall

see us light."

I watched the test. The men were absolutely sober, so I gave them each a

tepid peg.

"Well \_and\_ good," said Carnehan of the eyebrows, wiping the froth from

his moustache. "Let me talk now, Dan, We have been all over India, mostly

on foot. We have been boiler-fitters, engine-drivers, petty contractors,

and all that, and we have decided that India isn't big enough for such as

us."

They certainly were too big for the office. Dravot's beard seemed to fill

half the room and Carnehan's shoulders the other half, as they sat on the

big table. Carnehan continued:--"The country isn't half worked out because

they that governs it won't let you touch it. They spend all their blessed

time in governing it, and you can't lift a spade, nor chip a rock, nor

look for oil, nor anything like that without all the Government

saying--'Leave it alone and let us govern.' Therefore, such as it is, we

will let it alone, and go away to some other place where a man isn't

crowded and can come to his own. We are not little men, and there is

nothing that we are afraid of except Drink, and we have signed a Contrack

on that. \_Therefore\_, we are going away to be Kings."

"Kings in our own right," muttered Dravot.

"Yes, of course," I said. "You've been tramping in the sun, and it's a

very warm night, and hadn't you better sleep over the notion? Come

to-morrow."

"Neither drunk nor sunstruck," said Dravot. "We have slept over the notion

half a year, and require to see Books and Atlases, and we have decided

that there is only one place now in the world that two strong men can

Sar-a-\_whack\_. They call it Kafiristan. By my reckoning it's the top

right-hand corner of Afghanistan, not more than three hundred miles from

Peshawur. They have two and thirty heathen idols there, and we'll be the

thirty-third. It's a mountaineous country, and the women of those parts

are very beautiful."

"But that is provided against in the Contrack," said Carnehan. "Neither

Women nor Liquor, Daniel."

"And that's all we know, except that no one has gone there, and they

fight, and in any place where they fight a man who knows how to drill men

can always be a King. We shall go to those parts and say to any King we

find--'D'you want to vanquish your foes?' and we will show him how to

drill men; for that we know better than anything else. Then we will

subvert that King and seize his Throne and establish a Dy-nasty."

"You'll be cut to pieces before you're fifty miles across the Border," I

said. "You have to travel through Afghanistan to get to that country. It's

one mass of mountains and peaks and glaciers, and no Englishman has been

through it. The people are utter brutes, and even if you reached them you

couldn't do anything."

"That's more like," said Carnehan. "If you could think us a little more

mad we would be more pleased. We have come to you to know about this

country, to read a book about it, and to be shown maps. We want you to

tell us that we are fools and to show us your books." He turned to the

bookcases.

"Are you at all in earnest?" I said.

"A little," said Dravot, sweetly. "As big a map as you have got, even if

it's all blank where Kafiristan is, and any books you've got. We can read,

though we aren't very educated."

I uncased the big thirty-two-miles-to-the-inch map of India, and two

smaller Frontier maps, hauled down volume INF-KAN of the \_Encyclopaedia

Britannica\_, and the men consulted them.

"See here!" said Dravot, his thumb on the map. "Up to Jagdallak, Peachey

and me know the road. We was there with Roberts's Army. We'll have to turn

off to the right at Jagdallak through Laghmann territory. Then we get

among the hills--fourteen thousand feet--fifteen thousand--it will be cold

work there, but it don't look very far on the map."

I handed him Wood on the \_Sources of the Oxus\_. Carnehan was deep in the

\_Encyclopaedia\_.

"They're a mixed lot," said Dravot, reflectively; "and it won't help us to

know the names of their tribes. The more tribes the more they'll fight,

and the better for us. From Jagdallak to Ashang. H'mm!"

"But all the information about the country is as sketchy and inaccurate as

can be," I protested. "No one knows anything about it really. Here's the

file of the \_United Services Institute\_. Read what Bellew says."

"Blow Bellew!" said Carnehan. "Dan, they're an all-fired lot of heathens,

but this book here says they think they're related to us English."

I smoked while the men pored over \_Raverty\_, \_Wood\_, the maps and the

\_Encyclopaedia\_.